Docs: adding guidance documents (#100)
arcdocs/arcdocs.github.io: book/guidance/recommended_platforms.md

# Recommended Platforms

This guide asks a range of questions to consider when deciding which platform to use for your research. The suitable choice depends on your use cases and requirements.

## Considerations

### Are you using {ref}`personal data <personal_data>`?

- [LASER (Leeds Analytic Secure Environment for Research)](https://lida.leeds.ac.uk/about-lida/integrated-research-campus/)

### Does the work need a lot of memory?

- For example, a local laptop / workstation may have 4-64 GB
- There may be tools and methods to reduce memory usage, e.g., [SWD6: High Performance Python](https://arc.leeds.ac.uk/training/courses/swd6/)
- High Performance Computers (HPC)
  - [ARC3](https://arcdocs.leeds.ac.uk/systems/arc3.html#standard-nodes)
    - Standard 128 GB
    - High-memory 768 GB
  - [ARC4](https://arcdocs.leeds.ac.uk/systems/arc4.html#standard-nodes)
    - Standard 192 GB
    - High-memory 768 GB
- Cloud computing
  - Microsoft Azure

>     - ...

Reviewer: I think we'd direct to something like this on [Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-memory). As we don't have any experience of using high memory VMs on Azure but this page is a reasonable guide for someone to parse to decide.

Author: Added

### Does the work need a lot of storage?

> - For example, a local laptop / workstation may have 0.25-2 TB

Reviewer: Network storage is also available on from IT - https://it.leeds.ac.uk/it?id=kb_article&sysparm_article=KB0013189

Author: Added

- Onedrive

>   - 5 TB each, for all users

Reviewer: Quota increase is available on request to IT services

Author: Added

- HPC
  - [ARC3](https://arcdocs.leeds.ac.uk/systems/arc3.html#lustre-storage)
    - 836 TB Lustre storage, at 4GB/s (/nobackup)
  - [ARC4](https://arcdocs.leeds.ac.uk/systems/arc4.html#lustre-storage)
    - 1.2 PB Lustre storage, at 11GB/s (/nobackup)

### Do you need to parallelise the work over many cores?

- For example, a local laptop / workstation may have 4-16 cores
- HPC
  - [ARC3](https://arcdocs.leeds.ac.uk/systems/arc3.html#standard-nodes)
    - 252 standard nodes, each with 24 cores
    - 4 high-memory nodes, each with 24 cores
  - [ARC4](https://arcdocs.leeds.ac.uk/systems/arc4.html#standard-nodes)
    - 149 standard nodes, each with 40 cores
    - 2 high-memory nodes, each with 40 cores
- Cloud computing
  - Microsoft Azure

>     - ...

Reviewer: Information on Azure high CPU-to-memory VMs - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-compute

Author: Added

    - 6 x [general purpose GPU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General-purpose_computing_on_graphics_processing_units) nodes, each with 4 x [NVIDIA Tesla P100](https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/data-center/tesla-p100/)
  - [ARC4](https://arcdocs.leeds.ac.uk/systems/arc4.html#gpgpu-nodes)
    - 3 x [general purpose GPU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General-purpose_computing_on_graphics_processing_units) nodes, each with 4 x [NVIDIA Tesla V100](https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/data-center/tesla-v100/)
  - [Bede](https://bede-documentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/hardware/index.html)
    - 2 x login GPU nodes each with 4 x [NVIDIA Tesla V100](https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/data-center/tesla-v100/)
    - 32 x GPU nodes each with 4 x [NVIDIA Tesla V100](https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/data-center/tesla-v100/)
    - 4 x "inference" GPU nodes each with 4 x [NVIDIA Tesla T4](https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/data-center/tesla-t4/)
  - [JADE-2](http://docs.jade.ac.uk/en/latest/index.html)
    - 63 x [DGX-MAX-Q](https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/data-center/dgx-systems/dgx-1/) Nodes, each with 8 x [NVIDIA Tesla V100](https://www.nvidia.com/en-gb/data-center/tesla-v100/)
- Cloud computing
  - Microsoft Azure

>     - ...

Reviewer: Information on Azure GPU VMs - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-gpu

Again unsure we can provide more advice as we haven't had a real test of them

Author: Added

## Cost

> - ...

Reviewer: Thoughts on what you want to include here? Obviously ARC is free at point of use, Azure is pay as you use etc. Do we want ballpark figures for each service? Or the different cost models elaborated here?

Author: This was a request from an academic I think mainly in reference to LASER and AZURE and simplifying the costs for everyday work on an example project. Also, maybe comparing it to buying a standard GPU enabled laptop/workstation for example. The comments were largely about avoiding hidden costs, how to not keep getting charged (I guess because data is left on there, VMs not shut down properly, etc.).

So, yeh, maybe high-level ballpark figures, recommendations, and links for more information. Though I'm open to all suggestions.

Reviewer: That's a first pass at what might go in the costs section. The LASER details i've got off Adam Keeley. Let me know what you think if i've missed anything

    - Use the [Azure Price Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/pricing/calculator/) to generate an approximate monthly budget for your cloud spend.  
  - *Tips for minimising spending on Azure*
    - Always turn off your VMs when you're not using them.
    - When tidying up a VM setup, make sure you also delete other associated resources such as Managed Disks, public IP address, and virtual network.
  - *Tips for monitoring spending on Azure*
    - You can monitor your projected spend on Azure by checking the `Cost analysis` menu under `Cost Management` section on the left-hand menu when viewing a specific resource group. We encourage users to monitor this closely as especially initial costs can deviate until your setup stabilises.
    - You can configure specific cost alert emails be sent to you by using the `Cost alerts` menu under `Cost Management` section on the left-hand menu when viewing a specific resource group. This allows you to create a budget for a given period and once your resources uses a percentage of the specified budget you will receive an email alert.
- *LASER*

>   - LASER runs using Azure for the provision of virtual machines with some additional assumptions factored in.

Reviewer: Had some comments back from Adam Keeley which i'm going to summarise in a suggestion
```suggestion
  - LASER runs using Azure for the provision of virtual machines but with some heavy technical controls in place to enable the analysis of high sensitive data in a research setting
  - Therefore LASER VMs or Virtual Research Environments (VREs) tend to be more permanent than a standard Azure VM which incurs more persistent costs. More details on this can be found on the [LASER website](https://lida-data-analytics-team.github.io/laserdocs/docs/laser_info/laser.html)
```

  - *Tips for minimising spending on Azure*
    - Always turn off your VMs when you're not using them.
    - When tidying up a VM setup, make sure you also delete other associated resources such as Managed Disks, public IP address, and virtual network.
  - *Tips for monitoring spending on Azure*
    - You can monitor your projected spend on Azure by checking the `Cost analysis` menu under `Cost Management` section on the left-hand menu when viewing a specific resource group. We encourage users to monitor this closely as especially initial costs can deviate until your setup stabilises.
    - You can configure specific cost alert emails be sent to you by using the `Cost alerts` menu under `Cost Management` section on the left-hand menu when viewing a specific resource group. This allows you to create a budget for a given period and once your resources uses a percentage of the specified budget you will receive an email alert.
- *LASER*
  - LASER runs using Azure for the provision of virtual machines with some additional assumptions factored in.

>   - A cost estimate is available from the [DAT team](https://lida-data-analytics-team.github.io/laserdocs/docs/lida_services/dat.html) on request and a brief walkthrough of a basic LASER VM is detailed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A cost estimate is available from the [DAT team](https://lida-data-analytics-team.github.io/laserdocs/docs/lida_services/dat.html) on request and a brief walkthrough of a basic LASER VM is detailed below. Below is an example of costs, other storage and compute specification are available and best discussed with the [DAT team](https://lida-data-analytics-team.github.io/laserdocs/docs/lida_services/dat.html)
```
Apologies probably want to add this disclaimer
